we're breaking into our schedul
programming to take you to beay where
the hammer spokesman Osama Haman is
speaking on the ceasefire deal or not
let's listen into what he has to say who
are deceived of the peace and those who
are deceived of the US role as a
mediator to achieve peace in the Middle
East you need to
reconsider all of this and Ramadan must
be a holy month to support the gasin to
support the resistance the resistance is
still the option of the Palestinian
people and of the nation finally I ask
Allah Almighty to help this Union and to
help this conference and to unify the
imams of our nation to achieve the
reconnaissance of our nation our our
nation must be together working together
as they are asked by Allah Almighty a
big salute to the great people of Gaza
and may Allah Almighty reward the people
of Gaza forgiveness and mercy and those
the resistance people the Lions on the
ground they
have uh uh they have done a lot of
things and they have proved how strong
and resilient they are to the powers to
the Palestinian powers and faction let's
say Ramadan is the month of
jihad and we can continue this in
Ramadan and we will follow the steps of
the Prophet Muhammad Beast be upon him
and we will do our best we will take a
lot of uh principles
from the month of Ramadan on how to
support the right and to how to seek
Justice and Allah Almighty is great and
most of the people don't know that it is
Jihad
Victory and peace be upon you
all mam the spokesperson for H speaking
in Beirut we have been hearing and
seeing periodic statements from Hamas in
the lead up to any potential uh
ceasefire which is under negotiation
after a Paris uh meeting what nearly 10
days ago uh a shuttle diplomacy across
the Middle East with uh the mediators
and certainly a delegation of Hamas in
Cairo right now what we do understand is
that the Israelis have not sent a
delegation to Cairo they are unhappy uh
with certain elements of the agreement
which is about the way the hostages will
be released and the number of
Palestinian prisoners that uh Israel
detains uh that are actually
incarcerated in Israeli jails now Hamas
is not happy with that side of said
agreement the exact minutia of the
details are still under wraps but also
adding to all of this we have a scenario
where the um us uh is hosting uh Benny
Gans and Benny gance is himself a part
of the war cabinet and a former prime
minister he's in the US to talk to uh
the US vice president uh and various
officials in the US now the US vice
president has called for an immediate
ceasefire in Gaza using some of the
strongest language from Washington since
the start of Israel's war on the Strip
now Kamala Harris says that Palestinians
in Gaza are suffering a humanitarian
catastro rophe she says that a ceasefire
is essential to secure the flow of much
needed Aid and the release of the
captives and
given the immense scale of suffering in
Gaza there must be an immediate
ceasefire for at least the next six
weeks which is what is currently on the
table this will get the hostages out and
get a significant amount of Aid
in this would allow us to build
something more
enduring now rosn Jordan has more from
Washington
DC essentially the vice president kamla
Harris is responding to domestic
political criticism and uh Grassroots
criticism in this country that the Biden
Administration is on the wrong side of
history in the war on Gaza that it has
been uh giving Israel too much cover as
it carries out its war against Hamas and
other groups inside Gaza while not doing
enough to actually protect Palestinians
who live in Gaza the uh vice president
using the word ceasefire uh repeatedly
during her remarks at a bloody Sunday uh
commemoration in Selma Alabama
underscored the need to try to get this
temporary six weekl long ceasefire into
effect as quickly as possible she also
had tough language for the Israeli
government of prime minister Benjamin
Netanyahu saying that much more needs to
be done to get humanitarian Aid in she
called on the Israeli government to uh
try to help restore basic Services
inside Gaza uh notably because so many
uh buildings and communities have been
destroyed in Israeli air
strikes well joined I by Hassan barari
he's a political analyst and an officer
of international relations at Qatar
University very brief statement from
Assam hamdan uh the hamama spokesman in
uh Beirut talking really in general
terms about a ceasefire for Ramadan what
imams the the priests and clerics uh
should be thinking and saying in terms
of uh Gaza but very little really on any
talk about ceasefire any talk about the
negotiations that are ongoing at the
moment in Cairo very little we can read
into this for the moment because
negotiations are so delicate well I you
know I agree with put all the conditions
and now they're waiting for the isra to
respond and a compromise should be
reached somewhere I don't know where and
and when but it's going to be in Cairo
if if a deal is going to come out is
going to be in Cairo so usam hamdan is
maybe telling his audience about what is
expected but not going into details
because I think he's unaware of the
details uh given the fact that
negotiations is still not uh taken in
place indeed one of the moving um Parts
in this is the fact that the Israelis
haven't sent a delegation to Cairo
they're not happy with parts of the set
agreement and we don't really know the
fine print of that agreement uh but we
do know it's all to do with how the
captives are where they are and how
theyve been released and how they will
be um uh equated to Palestinian
prisoners that are also incarcerated in
Israeli jails well there's a sense that
the Israelis are looking for
intelligence you know uh they want to
know the the names and the where about
and this is something probably
suspicious you know and that's why Hamas
is not is unwilling to offer the
Israelis this at this time probably they
will provide the information later on if
there is a deal in in uh looming uh but
uh until and in this at this point I
think it is difficult for Hamas to give
them the details because they
interpreted this as providing them with
intelligence necessary for the Israelis
in in days to come if a deal is not
reached uh so we we have to wait and
think uh Israel is is unwilling to send
the uh the delegation now but this is
not a final say and they will probably
send that later on because the Americans
would step in and they would put a lot
of pressure on the Israelis and the
Israelis would go at the end of the day
they will go and negotiate now whether
they're going to reach a deal before
Ramadan or after that or during Ramadan
you know this is this remains to be seen
nobody has an exact answer to this it's
interesting we've asked lots of analysts
how you assess this Hamas are talking
uh the leadership of Hamas in the
negotiations they're outside of Gaza
there is a Hamas within Gaza there are
sporadic and broken lines of
communication it takes time to get
messages to and from if that is at all
possible for certainly hamas's side one
wonders whether those communication
links are clear or are broken or how
they're actually getting those messages
to each other we don't know the
logistics but I just wanted to talk to
you about the difficulty in getting
messages from inside a war zone to
outside to the negotiators well
absolutely you're right I mean the
communication is almost broken because
and everything is censored and the
people Hamas leaders inside Gaza are
almost isolated from the world simply
because of the continuous bombardment
but also the political leadership
outside uh Gaza are actually entitled to
come up with a deal if the deal meets
the demands of the people inside and we
know the the Broadline uh the broad
Baseline of of the agreement from Hamas
perspective is a seize Fair now whether
permanent or not you know I think this
is not a final say h they will be
exchange of prisoners but also the
humanitarian Aid uh to reach people
especially in the northern part of Gaza
so if the leadership in in the in Qatar
and now in Egypt can reach a deal with
Israelis on these issues I think the
ones inside Gaza will be probably happy
uh for this simply because they cannot
take part in these negotiations they
have to to rely on the uh um the
external leadership and while those
negotiations carry on there is pressure
from all sides to try and find a
solution to this can we just talk about
sort of the pressure that's on the US uh
Democratic party right now especially
the president and now the vice president
who has remained pretty quiet really but
now is very vocal why is CA Harris
pushing this forward why is her voice
being heard so very vocally right now
over the weekend well there there are a
couple of points in this and the first
one is they're embarrassed simply
because
they um they said Monday would be the
day for a deal and secondly uh there's
the internal critiques in uh within the
United States against the leadership and
many analysts and many also Grassroots
of the democratic party think that Biden
is not taking the right course and he's
maybe on the wrong side of history and
simply because the Americans are
providing the Israelis with everything
they need and everything they want
actually H they should have a say so
Biden is through Camila Harris is trying
to send the message to the Israelis that
probably they're growing impatient with
with Netanyahu and also there's a limit
of what they can do but more importantly
they're receiving benians which is the
competitor of Netanyahu and this is a
clear message that the Americans are
really trying to find a replacement for
netan and and this probably will change
the priorities of netan because netan is
afraid of internal scene now if the
United States stepped in to change him I
think he would be in trouble Hassan
barari thanks so much for your analysis
sure